[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The big problem is, and
you're looking at somebody who
was very overweight
when he was young.
So I know all about a troubled
interaction with nourishment
as my psychologist used to say.
The point is,
though, that we live
in a very affluent
society, and there
are lots of comfort foods.
And we are bitten by
the taste monster.
So lots of people are
eating lots of sugary foods.
This is hardly news.
What is news to some people is
that a lot of the foods that we
eat break down into sugar, even
though we think they don't.
Bread breaks down into
glucose in the body.
That doesn't necessarily
make bread evil.
White bread is a
problem, because it's
made from sugar, water,
flour and bleach.
But when we look at grain
products in general,
they're high energy foods.
Nothing wrong with that.
For instance, if you
look at a baked potato,
that's one of the highest items
on the glycemic index that
breaks down into
glucose, pure energy.
That's great.
Carrot juice tastes
so great, because it's
full of glucose, sugar.
So there are a number of
these foods, pasta, of course,
we know about.
Number of these
foods that people
are eating that
they're not immediately
linking with the fact that
this is going to make them big.
And on their own, these
foods wouldn't be a problem.
People say to me,
well, what about honey?
People have eaten
honey for centuries.
Surely honey can't
contribute towards diabetes.
On its own, honey was the
only sweet thing the Saxons
and the medieval
people used to eat.
There was nothing else around.
There weren't Mars
bars or anything.
But here we see now when
we look at the diets today,
honey just now becomes
another part of the problem.
When you look at--
and in fact, any of you that
are watching this program, just
think about the
amount of foods you've
eaten over the last week
that are broken down
into sugar and all of the
energy going into the body.
And now the next
question is fine,
you've taken all this energy in.
Now how many marathons
a week are you
running to burn it all off?
Two?
Three?
None?
So what happens is,
of course, the body
is producing all this insulin
to metabolize the sugar.
And of course, all
of this insulin
is causing a problem
for the cells.
The cells become
resistant to the insulin,
and then we move into this very
common condition now called
type 2 diabetes.
Let's not forget, there
are millions of people
out there in the threshold
of going into type 2 syndrome
x, what we call insulin
resistance, dry mouth, peeing
a little and often.
These types of, you
know, tunnel vision,
blurry vision, this
type of thing happening.
Having the desire
to get in your car
and drive down to a
24 hour petrol station
to buy a fruit and nut
bar the size of Tasmania
because you've got a sugar fix.
So on top of diabetes, we
now get loads of problems
with yeast, fungi,
candida breaking out.
So the answer is with diabetes
is, again, diet and lifestyle.
I mean, the sheer idiocy
of just giving type
2 diabetics more
insulin, more of what
they're resistant to
to start with is dumb.
And what we should
be doing again
is, and they are
starting to do this,
is to concentrate
on diet, put them
on these anti-candida diets
to strip the glucose out
of the diet.
Exercise is very important.
Remember, type 2 diabetes
is when the cells
are resistant to insulin.
So now what we've
got to do is we've
got to be able to free
up the insulin pathway.
And the way we do that
is we exercise that body
so the cells burn the energy.
And therefore, they
require more sugar,
so that frees up
that whole problem.
And in early type 2 diabetes,
diet supplementation,
we use chromium, vanadium,
number of supplements
to do that.
And also the
straightforward dietary
changes that we
discuss in the books.
This should be part of
every household's education.
But you see, diabetes
is still the preserve
of the medical doctor.
And so what we're not
doing is we're not
educating the
public enough to be
able to avoid these problems.
Believe it or not,
they're willing to listen
once they start suffering.
But the big problem is
we've got lots of people
out there living the life of
Riley, having a great life,
and that's good.
But they're doing
wrong by themselves.
And so nature's going to
sharpen her sword for them.
If I was diagnosed
with diabetes type 2,
the very first thing
that I would think about
would I'd first of all go
back and read my chapter
on diabetes, which discusses--
and this is what they found.
That we strip the
refined high glycemic
carbohydrates out of
the diet first thing.
Because what's happening is
that if you have diabetes,
you have a condition
where the cells are
resistant to the insulin.
So simply by giving the
body more sugar to process
is just going to
compound the problem,
requiring more insulin
to be put into the body.
So the studies that we've looked
at are pretty unequivocal.
First thing to do if
you have type 2 diabetes
is to change your
diet, to remove
a lot of these high
sugar foods, and to start
to put the emphasis on a lot
of the raw natural whole foods,
lots of greens.
Greens are great because
they contain chlorophyll,
which increases the amount of
oxygen uptake in the blood.
Converts the hemoglobin, which
is very useful for the body.
The next thing I'd
do is exercise.
And I'd start off by--
a lot of people think
that walking is exercise.
Walking is not exercise from the
cardiovascular point of view,
because it's not putting
the cardiovascular system
under any kind of
significant strain.
What we need to do is get
slightly out of breath.
So I'd be doing stair climbing.
I'd be using those horrendous
machines in the gym.
They never go anywhere,
have you noticed that?
And just exercising,
getting out of breath.
When I lived in Santa
Monica, California,
they had these stairways,
200 steps going up
the side of the hill.
And often when I'd go down
there and run up them myself,
there was diabetics there who
were exercising specifically
for their condition.
And lastly, the supplementation,
minerals, antioxidants,
and things like vanadium and
chromium supplements, chromium
picolinate have
been shown to help
cells recognize the insulin.
And generally in the
early stages of type 2,
there is every chance that
people can come out of it.
As the disease
progresses, in fact
the more the disease progresses,
the uglier your options become.
So it's very important to get
into diabetes nice and early
and to not fool around.
Just get the diet
sorted out, exercise,
and get the whole mindset
completely changed.
Let's go back to basics.
You are what you eat.
Who really believes that?
Who believes that?
Angel mood.
Valentine's Day depends on it.
You know, when you
have a look at us
and we see people just
eating a lot of sugary foods
and then they're climbing the
walls and getting violent,
I mean, they did studies
in the prison, in fact,
Steven Shontar I think was
the researcher in America.
Went into American prisons,
rounded up a test group,
I believe somewhere in
the couple of thousands,
3,000 maybe, and
changed their diets out.
And changed their diets out,
gave them some supplementation,
changed their diets out.
In other words, what
he wanted to see
was, and these were the
criminals beating up
other criminals, these
were the violent ones.
What he wanted to find
out was whether there
was a correlation between
diet and violent behavior.
And this is the case.
How many people
believe that if they're
watching bad news on
the TV all day long,
they're not going
to get depressed?
That what we focus on
becomes our reality?
If you're watching these
news programs all day long,
then is that going to
affect your mental attitude?
Of course it's going to do that.
I tried to get everybody to go
through tomorrow's newspaper
with a red pen, put a big red
X next to every single article
that is bad news.
And when you're done
that, do all the programs,
Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Murder
She Wrote, Midsummer's Murder,
Murder With Frost,
Murder in Suburbia,
Dead Like Us, Cult
of the Coffin.
You're looking at these
programs all the time.
Now go back through the same
newspaper with a blue pen
and put a big blue X next
to every single article that
is absolutely none
of your business.
And what you realize
is you're looking
at a whole bunch of bad news
every day, none of which
has anything to do
with you at all.
And the rest of
it is the weather,
and you know how
they lie about that.
So a lot of people will
blame obesity on genes.
In other words, Granddad was
fat, Dad was fat, Mom was fat,
I'm fat, my brother's
fat, my sister's fat.
Therefore, we're a fat family.
The answer is well, there's
another way of looking at that.
Maybe you're all
eating the same stuff.
Maybe you're all sitting in
armchairs and not exercising.
They thought this about scurvy.
Jim went to sea, he
got scurvy and died.
His son, Bob, went to
sea, got scurvy, and died.
His son, Frank, went to
Oh, scurvy is genetic.
No, it just looks that way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]